1. For what values of p, the density of the grid, did you find free flowing traffic and traffic 
jams? Did you find any cases of a mixture of jams and free flowing traffic?

I found that for values of p ranging from 0 to .45 the system was free flowing. For values of p
above .55, the system experienced traffic jams. For values between .45 and .55, there were a
mixture of jams and free flowing traffic.


2. How many simulation steps did you need to run before observing this behavior?
I had to run about 20 to 30 simulation steps at num_steps to be a maximum of 1000 to observe this
behavior before I realized this pattern. For the mixture of jams and free flowing traffic, there 
were some observations that stopped after the 1000 limit I had set and others that stopped before
that value. Therefore, I set the limit to 5000 in order to understand and the limit was still
reached for some.


3. Does this transition depend on the size or shape of the grid?
This transition is dependent on the size and shape of the grid. Looking at a 40 by 10 matrix with p
equal to .5, I found that this type of state is constantly flowing. In the 10 tests I ran, none of
them had any steps lower than 10,000. This was the same case for a 10 by 40 matrix. 


Explanation of graphs
Graph 1 and 2:
These two graphs describe a 50 by 50 with density of 60%, showing the beginning state of the matrix
and the end state of the matrix.

Graph 3:
I wanted to analyze the pattern between the density of the system and the number of steps it took 
to reach grid lock. I did this by taking a sample of 20 tests and averaging the mean of the
num_steps. I would like to make a note that for the value .5, there is a slight error in the
numerical value as there were 4 "free flowing" states (the maximum number of iterations the system
could take was 1000 so I assumed the state is free flowing at this point). If 1 free flowing state
exists, the mean of the set should be infinite as 1 value is infinite.
Nevertheless, there is a certain pattern, where as the density increases, it takes less number of
steps to reach a traffic jam.

Graph 4:
I wanted to see whether there was a pattern between the size of the system and the number of steps
it took to reach grid lock. In the graph shown, there is some indication of a pattern where the
number of steps needed increased as the system size increased. However, in various other tests, I
noticed that there actually was no pattern between the size and the number of steps. For a 10 by 10
matrix, the average number of steps might be around 500. For a 15 by 15 system, the average would
decrease down to 200. For a 20 by 20 system, the number would jump back up. This fluctuating nature
gave some indication that there is no pattern, unlike the case in Graph 3.
